==========
Physiology
==========


Appearance
=========
    maxSweat (float)
      maximum gloss factor; 1.0 should be realistic, but can go above or below

    maxFlush
      maximum lerp towards red; 1.0 should be realistic, but can go above or
      below


Temperature
===========
Body temperature is defined by two numbers: the current value and the target
value, both [0, 1]. `temperatureExcitementMax` is used to determine the target
value based on excitement, and `temperatureExcitementRate` and
`temperatureDecayRate` are rates at which the current value increases or
decreases to reach the target

    temperatureExcitementMax (float, [0, 1])
      the excitement value at which body temperature should be at 1.0 (its
      maximum); the target temperature is therefore
      `excitement / temperatureExcitementMax`, clamped [0, 1]

    temperatureExcitementRate (float)
      the rate at which body temperature increases towards the current target
      based on the current excitement; the rate is the current excitement
      (values [0, 1]) multiplied by this

    temperatureDecayRate (float)
      rate at which the temperature decreases when the target is below the
      current temperature


Tiredness
=========
Tiredness is defined by two numbers: the base value and the current value, both
[0, 1]. The base tiredness starts at 0, goes up slightly for every orgasm, and
decays when excitement stays low enough. The current value is never below base,
but always shoots up to 1.0 quickly after orgasm and slowly goes back to base.

    tirednessRateDuringPostOrgasm (float)
      the rate at which tiredness increases during the post-orgasm state; by
      default, the rate is high so 1.0 is reached during `postOrgasmTime`

    tirednessBaseDecayRate (float)
      the rate at which the base value decreases if excitement is lower than
      `tirednessMaxExcitementForBaseDecay`

    tirednessBackToBaseRate (float)
      the rate at which the current value decreases back to the base value

    delayAfterOrgasmUntilTirednessDecay (seconds, float)
      time after post-orgasm during which the base value will not decay

    tirednessMaxExcitementForBaseDecay (float, [0, 1])
      if the excitement is above this, the base value will not decay

    orgasmBaseTirednessIncrease (float, [0, 1])
      added to the base value on each orgasm


Voice
=====
The voice pitch values are [0, 1]. Higher values have higher pitch. The
integration module is in charge of figuring out what that means. For MacGruber's
Life, this corresponds to a pitch between [0.8, 1.2].

    neutralVoicePitch (float, [0, 1])
      central value in the range for a neutral voice pitch, defaults to 0.5,
      which is mapped to 1.0 for MacGruber's Life

    voicePitch (float, [0, 1] or -1)
      forces a voice pitch for this physiology; if -1, uses the person's scale
      instead, where a scale of 0.5 is a voice pitch of 1, and 1.5 is a voice
      pitch of 0.

    voice (string)
      directly given to the integration module; for MacGruber's Life, this is
      the name of the "Breath Dataset"


Sensitivity
===========
Controls the rate at which excitement goes up when various body parts are
stimulated. Each source has a "rate" and a "max":

  - rate: the rate at which excitement goes up when the source is activated
  - max:  the maximum excitement value that can be reached with this source
          alone; if this is not 1.0, the character cannot have an orgasm from
          this source

The rate is multiplied by a value that depends on the level of stimulation of a
particular body part, controlled by the `factor` parameters below. For example,
the default `lipsFactor` is 0.1 and `mouthFactor` is 0.9. If only the lips are
being triggered, `mouthRate` is multiplied by 0.1. The value is not clamped and
can go above 1.0.

Although these are named "factors", they're really just added together. VaM does
not have variable triggers that depend on the pressure being applied, they're
either 0 or 1. These factors are therefore always multiplied by 1 when the
trigger is active. If a future version supports variable triggers, the factors
should scale accordingly.

If multiple sources are active at the same time, the highest "max" value is
used and rates are added.

As an example, the rate at which excitement goes up when the mouth is triggered
would be something like:

      ((lipsTrigger * lipsFactor) + (mouthTrigger * mouthFactor)) * mouthRate

clamped between [0, mouthMax]. Both `lipsTrigger` and `mouthTrigger` can be
either 0 or 1 depending on whether the trigger is active in VaM.

Note that some excitement values are controlled by the personality, see
personality.txt.


    mouthRate (float)
      rate at which excitement goes up when the lips or mouth are being
      triggered

    mouthMax (float)
      maximum excitement value when the mouth is being triggered

    lipsFactor (float)
    mouthFactor (float)
      how much the lips and mouth contribute to mouthRate


    breastsRate (float)
      rate at which excitement goes up when the breasts are being triggered

    breastsMax (float)
      maximum excitement value when the breasts are being triggered

    leftBreastFactor (float)
    rightBreastFactor (float)
      how much the left and right breasts contribute to breastsRate


    genitalsRate (float)
      rate at which excitement goes up when the genitals are being triggered

    genitalsMax (float)
      maximum excitement value when the genitals are being triggered

    labiaFactor (float)
      how much the labia contributes to genitalsRate; since the labia trigger is
      the only one used for genitals, this should be 1.0


    penetrationRate (float)
      rate at which excitement goes up when penetrated

    penetrationMax (float)
      maximum excitement value when penetrated

    vaginaFactor (float)
    deepVaginaFactor (float)
    deeperVaginaFactor (float)
      how much the three triggers inside the vagina contribute to
      penetrationRate; note that the latter two are difficult to trigger
      normally in VaM

    excitementDecayRate (float)
      rate at which excitement decreases when there is no stimulation of any
      body part

    excitementPostOrgasm (float)
      excitement will reset to this value after orgasm

    orgasmTime (seconds, float)
    postOrgasmTime (seconds, float)
      time during which orgasms and post-orgasm states will last; both are used
      for animations and adjusting tiredness

    rateAdjustment (float)
      a flat value that multiplies the excitement rate, defaults to 1.0; this
      can be changed to globally increase or decrease the rate at which
      excitement changes
